#Memoirs of the life of Mrs. Sarah Osborn, who died at Newport, Rhodeisland, on the second day of August, 1796. In the eighty third year of her age. / By Samuel Hopkins, D.D. Pastor of the First Congregational Church in Newport.#

##Osborn, Sarah, 1714-1796.##
Memoirs of the life of Mrs. Sarah Osborn, who died at Newport, Rhodeisland, on the second day of August, 1796. In the eighty third year of her age. / By Samuel Hopkins, D.D. Pastor of the First Congregational Church in Newport.
Osborn, Sarah, 1714-1796.

##General Summary##

**Links**

[TCP catalogue](http://www.ota.ox.ac.uk/tcp/)  • 
[HTML](http://tei.it.ox.ac.uk/tcp/Texts-HTML/free/N26/N26778.html)  • 
[EPUB](http://tei.it.ox.ac.uk/tcp/Texts-EPUB/free/N26/N26778.epub)

**Availability**

This keyboarded and encoded edition of the
	       work described above is co-owned by the institutions
	       providing financial support to the Early English Books
	       Online Text Creation Partnership. This Phase I text is
	       available for reuse, according to the terms of Creative
	       Commons 0 1.0 Universal. The text can be copied,
	       modified, distributed and performed, even for
	       commercial purposes, all without asking permission.

**Major revisions**

1. __2007-03__ __TCP__ *Assigned for keying and markup*
1. __2007-04__ __SPi Global (Manila)__ *Keyed and coded from Readex/Newsbank page images*
1. __2007-07__ __Alexis Jakobson__ *Sampled and proofread*
1. __2007-07__ __Alexis Jakobson__ *Text and markup reviewed and edited*
1. __2008-02__ __pfs.__ *Batch review (QC) and XML conversion*

##Content Summary##

#####Front#####

1. Contents.

#####Body#####
THE LIFE OF MRS. SARAH OSBORN.PART I. Containing an Account of the firſt thirty years of her Life, w
    _ PART I. Containing an Account of the firſt thirty years of her Life, written by herſelf; with a brief Introduction.

    _ PART II. Containing a GENERAL ACCOUNT of her LIFE▪

    _ PART III. EXTRACTS from her DIARY.
Thurſday, June 21, 1744.YESTERDAY very much overcome in God's houſe, at the ſolemn ordination of the
Thurſday, June 21, 1744.
Sabbath day, June 24.—This morning, through the goodneſs of God, to the ſatisfaction and comfort of Sabbath noon, July 15.—Bleſs the Lord, O my ſoul, and forget not all his benefits. I have been to thSabbath noon, Auguſt 26.—I deſire to bleſs thee, my God, for the word of thy grace I have been favorMonday morning, Auguſt 27.—I deſire with unfeigned lips to praiſe the name of my God, for he did meeWedneſday evening, October 3.—Bleſſed be God, I have been kept, for the moſt part of this week, in aTueſday evening, October 30.—I deſire to record, to the praiſe and glory of God, that he has this daTueſday,January 1, 1745.LORD, I bleſs thee that thou haſt brought me to ſee the return of another ne
Tueſday,January 1, 1745.
Monday morning, May 15.—Laſt evening I went to ſee the dear Mr. Helyer, who told me a few days more Monday evening, May 27.—This morning it pleaſed the great and glorious God to take to himſelf my deaSabbath Day, July 28.—The week paſt I have, through God's goodneſs, been carried ſafely to ſee my moFriday morning, September 12.—Laſt evening I went to viſit my dear Suſa, who is ſick, and rejoices i
Thurſday evening,February 12, 1747.
Sabbath day, May 3.—This is the third ſabbath that I have already been detained from the public worſSabbath evening,February 21, 1748.I AM now within a few hours arrived at the age of thirty four year
Sabbath evening,February 21, 1748.
June 4.—I have this week been to ſee my dear Suſa, and found much cauſe to rejoice, and bleſs God, wJune 13.—I would fain write as one who has liſted under the banner of the Lord Jeſus, that great Cap
Thurſday morning,September 7, 1749.
Auguſt 20, 1750.I HAVE at this time had the moſt ſweet communion with God in prayer, that I have exp
Auguſt 20, 1750.
Auguſt 22.—I deſire to record, with a truly grateful ſoul, that God has permitted me to draw near toSabbath evening,March 10, 1751.I WOULD now record to the praiſe of God, and for my future encouragem
Sabbath evening,March 10, 1751.
Saturday, Auguſt 31.—I have, through the goodneſs of my God, this week been kept for the moſt part, Tueſday, September 3.—I was permitted to go to God's houſe and table, and there was refreſhed, firſtWedneſday evening, November 6.—Tomorrow is ſet apart for a day of thankſgiving, and as there is to bNovember 7.—I deſire to bleſs God, the difficulty I mentioned laſt evening is removed, and upon a reTueſday evening, December 31, 1751.—Now, my God, thou haſt brought me to the cloſe of another year, Sabbath evening,February 9, 1752.AH, LORD, how deceitful do I find my heart to be! How often have I 
Sabbath evening,February 9, 1752.
March 1, 1752. Sabbath day.—O my Lord and my God! How art thou giving me an undeniable teſtimony of November 16, 1752.—A day of public thankſgiving. O my ſoul, adore the matchleſs grace, and adorable 
Sabbath evening,March 11, 1753.
Sabbath morning, March 23.—This is the firſt time that I have taken my room for retirement. And now Monday morning, March 26.—Yeſterday morning my room ſeemed new and ſtrange. And, for wiſe ends, I waTueſday morning, March 27.—Yeſterday morning I was enlarged and refreſhed, and found a ſweet calmneſWedneſday morning, March 28.—The Lord make me thankful! I have both ſtrength of body, and a will givSabbath day, April 1.—I have now enjoyed my room for retirement one week. And O, has it not been a ſTueſday morning, May 15.—On Saturday evening, Sabbath morning and evening, and yeſterday morning, I Sabbath evening, May 20.—In the week paſt I have had my thoughts much employed in meditating on deatFriday evening, June 1.—Bleſſed be God, I ſtill continue to reap the ſweetneſs of having a place conSaturday evening, July 28.—Laſt evening ſtraitened and confuſed in prayer. This morning waked with aSabbath morning, July 29.—This morning I have again been exerciſed with deſpondencies,

and ſeemed tMonday morning, July 30.—O with what a complete uneaſineſs am I exerciſed! How I dread the buſineſs Monday evening.—This morning my heart was ſo exceedingly overwhelmed, that I could write no more: BuMonday evening, Auguſt 6.—Bleſſed be God, ever ſince Monday laſt, when God enabled me to pour out mySabbath evening, September 23.—Alas! Alas! Lord, what ſhall I do! I am ſo ignorant, I am as a beaſt Friday morning, October 26.—Two ſudden deaths here this week! The Lord ſanctify theſe warnings to alTueſday morning, November 6.—Yeſterday cumbered with many things of real neceſſity for the body, whiTueſday evening, November 6.—This has bleſſed be God, been a good day to me. A ſweet calm has poſſeſMarch 22, 1754.THE day before yeſterday morning refreſhed in reading the xvth chapter of John. Rejoi
March 22, 1754.
Sabbath evening, March 24.—Tomorrow morning it will be a year ſince I was firſt indulged with the prThurſday morning, April 4.—This is a day ſet apart for public faſting and prayer. O that God may ſpiThurſday evening, April 4.—After I wrote this morning, God condeſcended to afford me the humbling inSaturday morning, May 25.—O my Lord, when ſhall I get near to thee, and unboſ• myſelf to thee! Lord,Saturday morning, September 7.—Have all this week paſt labored under bodily indiſpoſition, and greatTueſday morning, September 10.—Still in an unſettled frame. Cannot fix on any thing. Nothing ſeems ſFriday morning, September 12.—I have not yet recovered my ſpiritual taſte, and my ſoul is faint and September 15, Sabbath morning.— As I awoke today I was refreſhed by theſe words, "This is the day thDecember 25.—Very ſtormy this morning. Thunder, lightning, wind, rain, and hail. O bleſſed be God fo
January 1, 1755.
February 20.—O my God, appear for me, and break and humble this haughty ſtony heart. O, thou art, inFebruary 21.—This morning the Lord graciouſly afforded me the humbling influences of his bleſſed SpiSabbath day, March 2.—Yeſterday I was indulged with another opportunity to join with my dear, dear fMarch 20.—This day being ſet apart, by our ſociety, for faſting and prayer, I determined, by grace aSaturday afternoon, April 5.—Bleſſed • God, indulged again with opportunity to 〈◊〉 in prayer with mySaturday evening, April 19.—I have been theſe two days paſt in very poor, low fra• much bodily indiſApril 22.—Bleſſed be God, the Sabbath was a ſweet day to me. It pleaſed God graciouſly to afford me April 30.—After I wrote yeſterday had freedom at the throne of grace: Was, I truſt, really aſſiſted May 1.—A golden ſeaſon at the throne of grace, after I wrote yeſterday. The Lord make me thankful. AMonday, May 5.—When I wrote laſt evening, I ſeemed only rationally convinced that things were well wMay 29.—Since I wrote laſt have had precious ſeaſons of prayer: I truſt real communion with God, in Monday morning, June 9.—O this crazy load, this ſloth, this ſleep. How much of my precious time doesThurſday morning, Auguſt 7.—While writing, yeſterday had a realizing ſenſe of the ſtability, of the Friday morning, September 19.—My heart is now full of grief becauſe full of folly. My unruly tongue Monday morning, October 6.—O! I have cauſe to hang my harp upon the willow, for all the day, yeſterdTueſday morning, October 7.—I ſcarcely know now what to make of myſelf. I am dejected, pained at my Tueſday noon.—Bleſſed be God, after I wrote was enabled to eaſe my burdened heart, by pouring out myThurſday morning, October 9.—Yeſterday ſhut up, and much indiſpoſed in body. Not enlarged in prayer;Evening, October 9.—Bleſſed be God, all the forenoon I was kept watching. At noon, in meditation andSaturday morning, October 11.—Bleſſed be God, I this morning awake with him, and have been refreſhedWedneſday morning, November 5.—I now record, on purpoſe that I may hereafter ſee it more particularlThurſday morning.—Aſſiſted in prayer, and my faith drawn out into exerciſe, both for ſpiritual and tSabbath evening.—Bleſſed be God, notwithſtanding all the glooms and diſtractions that perplexed me, November 18.—The night paſt, God has fulfilled my deſire, that if in my day there ſhould be an earthFriday morning, November 28.—The Lord make me thankful, and again I ſay, my ſoul, be thankful, for hJanuary 22, 1756.OF all creatures that live, I think I have the moſt reaſon to be thankful. God is e
January 22, 1756.
February 6.—I have been perplexed in my mind, and vexed with myſelf on account of a ſtrong expreſſioTueſday morning, March 9.—By thinking on the experience I had laſt week, how deeply I have been ſunkMonday morning, June 28.—Yeſterday morning, ſome precious moments in prayer, while pleading that I mJuly 1.—I have been reviewing former writings, and find, notwithſtanding many, many deficiencies in Wedneſday morning, July 7.—Yeſterday morning, I had not any freedom of acceſs, and ſomething happeneWedneſday evening.—Forever bleſſed be my gracious God, after I wrote this morning, I w• enabled to aMonday evening, July 12.—Bleſſed be God, I had acceſs to the throne of grace again this •ing, and thThurſday morning, July 16.—We have not had very hot weather for eight days paſt, ſuch as I uſed to dFriday evening, July 23.—The Lord make me truly thankful, for this hath been a good day to me. God hFriday morning, Auguſt 6.—O, thou whoſe eyes are as a flame of fire, ſearch and try me; ſee if thereMonday evening.—Bleſſed be God, he hath been with me all the day of a truth; hath enabled me to be dFriday morning, Auguſt 13.—O Lord my God, grant me ſome diſcoveries of thy glorious perfections, ſomSaturday evening, Auguſt 21.—Surely I am the ſtrangeſt creature upon earth. This morning, God condeſLord's Day, September 12.—Laſt evening died a child, whom I have had in my ſchool from the cradle. WThurſday morning, September 22.—I have been all this week, and ſtill am, very weak. My diſtemper retWedneſday evening, November 10.—Bleſſed be God, I had a precious ſeaſon this morning. God excited veSabbath evening, November 14.—Bleſſed, forever bleſſed be my gracious God, for he is good, and his mFriday evening, November 19.—Bleſſed be God, an unexpected ſmile of providence, today, whereby we haFriday evening, December 31.—Bleſſed, forever bleſſed be my gracious God, who hath condeſcended agai
Saturday evening,January 1, 17•7.
Thurſday morning, January 27.—Forever bleſſed be my gracious God, for he is good, and his mercy enduTueſday evening, February 1.—Bleſſed, and forever adored, be my faithful, compaſſionate, and dear ReSabbath evening, February 6.—Bleſſed be my great and glorious God, for his goodneſs to me is beyond Monday evening, February 7.—Sweet was the morning, when I awoke with God. His word was ſweeter than Saturday evening, April 2.—Bleſſed be God, ſome ſweet moments this morning in prayer, and have, throSabbath evening, April 10.—Bleſſed be God, a precious ſeaſon this morning, in reading,

meditation, Friday evening, April 22.—O, thou holy, holy, holy, Lord God almighty, what a vile, abominable creatLord's Day, April 21.—Lord, permit me to plead that thou wouldſt enlarge the faculties of my ſoul, tWedneſday morning, May 25.—O, truth and faithfulneſs, that doth never, never fail me! Let me adore, Saturday morning, June 11.—O Lord, how many, and how great are my defects in every duty. How ſhort dThurſday evening, July 21.—Sweet freedom at the throne of grace today. The Lord make me thankful, anFriday evening, Auguſt 19.—The Lord make me thankful. On Wedneſday morning, I had as large diſcoveriWedneſday morning, 24.—O, my God, help me to remember it is by thy grace I ſtand. Suffer me not to bWedneſday evening.—Thanks be to God, a pleaſant day, ſince God granted me ſome freedom at the throneSaturday evening, September 2.—Bleſſed b• God, a ſweet calm reſting on God, ſince he has enabled me Friday, September 30.—Bleſſed be God, received a debt today, and with this, paid two. This mercy GodTueſday morning, October 4.—O, what a confederacy do Satan, unbelief, and carnal reaſon, keep, to drTueſday morning, Oct. 18.—Thanks be to God, a comfortable day yeſterday, juſt as though I had come oNovember 20.—It is better to truſt in the Lord, than to put confidence in princes. Thanks be to God Wedneſday morning, December 21.—I think nothing can more reſemble my poor ſoul, than a helpleſs, ſimSaturday evening,January 7, 1758.I WILL, by grace, wait patiently on the Lord; for my expectations a
Saturday evening,January 7, 1758.
Saturday morning, January 21.—O my God, when Iſrael groaned in Egypt, under hard taſkmaſters, and crFriday evening, January 27.—Reviewing former writings this evening, I find confident expectations exWedneſday morning, April 12.—Lord teach me the holy art of living with thee by the day. O help me toTueſday morning, June 20.—Ah Lord God! thou ſeeſt what a child I am, what a mere babe▪ O communicateJuly 14.—Went out yeſterday, though but poorly. Was diſappointed by company there; and my friend froTueſday morning, July 25.—I have wounded myſelf ſo, by my fooliſh boaſting, detracting tongue, that Auguſt 2.—Thanks be to God! A freſh ſupply yeſterday. And my debts are, or can be, paid out of it. AAuguſt 19.—O thou, before whom angels •ow, and vail their faces, who am I, and what am I, that thou Auguſt 20.—Sabbath intermiſſion ſeaſon.— They who come to God muſt believe that he i•, and that he iSabbath evening, Auguſt 20.—Thanks be to God for the refreſhments of this day; that I ſtill dwell inThurſday morning, Auguſt 31.—O, bleſſed be God, who has provided ſuch help for me, that both my famiSaturday morning, September 2.—For two days paſt the pain in my head and eyes has been ſuch that I cWedneſday evening, November 15.—My glorious, gracious God, I would praiſe thee with my whole heart. Sabbath morning, November 19.—Bleſſed be God! Yeſterday morning a precious ſeaſon at the throne of gMonday morning,March 5, 1759.BLESSED be God for the return of another birth day in peace. But oh! ma
Monday morning,March 5, 1759.
Friday, May 4.—Once more the houſe up the hill is offered, if at liberty, as expected. The Lord overWedneſday morning, May 9.—How gracious is God to me! A ſweet ſenſe he gave me yeſterday all the day,Sabbath evening, May 20.—O, thanks be to God! Sweet was this morning, when God took •e near himſelf,Monday morning, May 28.—Laſt week my dear huſband went to Berkley, in hopes of recovering his healthWedneſday morning, Auguſt 15.—A ſweet and ſolemn ſenſe of what I wrote yeſterday. Precious ſeaſon! WWedneſday morning, December 26.—I had a ſweet, cheerful day yeſterday, bleſs the Lord, O my ſoul. O Tueſday evening,February 5, 1760.THE Lord grant I may from this time reap the ſweetneſs of having th
Tueſday evening,February 5, 1760.
Tueſday evening, March 4.—The laſt day of my forty ſixth year is now run out, a little more than tweFriday morning, March 28.—For wiſe and holy ends, God permitted me to be diſappointed: I did not recMonday evening, April 21.—Thanks be to God, who has this day aſſiſted me, and brought me through theFriday morning, April 25.—O Lord, thou ſeeſt my weakneſs in body as well as mind; and how my vital ſSabbath morning, April 27.—Now, my God, bring me again to ſtand ſtill, and ſee the ſalvation of God.Tueſday morning, May 13.—Thanks be to God, I had my hands filled with buſineſs yeſterday, and was brTueſday morning, November 25.—In caſting up accounts laſt night I find we are in debt to ſeveral perWedneſday morning, November 26.—The Lord make me thankful; for I felt what I wrote yeſterday morningThurſday morning, November 27.—Bleſſed be God! A precious morning again yeſterday. A deep ſenſe of wFriday morning, November 28.—Thanks be to God for a cheerful day yeſterday. Some exerciſes of faith Tueſday morning, December 3.—Lord, help now, for Chriſt's ſake, and prevent my placing my expectatioSabbath morning, December 7.— Lord, wilt thou not draw out my whole heart and ſoul, and enable me toSaturday morning, December 13.—I was yeſterday very poorly all day. But, bleſſed be God, have had a January 11, 1761.O LORD, who can ſtand before thy cold! O pity the poor and needy: Provide for them 
January 11, 1761.
Saturday morning, January 17.—Forever bleſſed be God, for all that ſweet content and acquieſcence inThurſday morning, January 29.—Bleſſed be God, who did mercifully aſſiſt me yeſterday morning, and huThurſday morning, February 12.—O Lord, ſuffer me to come, and in the arms of faith and prayer to briFriday morning, February 13.—I was called by providence yeſterday to ſee this ſick man, who in all pSaturday morning, February 14.—I went again, as ſoon as I was up yeſterday morning, wanting ſtill toThurſday morning, February 19.—Yeſterday I was comfortable ſome part of the day, and came through thThurſday morning, April 2. —Thanks be to God for increaſing the number of our dear ſociety. We are nFriday morning, April 17.—Eleven of our ſociety ſpent the afternoon here yeſterday. I, made a ſhort Monday morning, October 12.— Lord, make me truly thankful. Yeſterday was a good day. God did ſolemniWedneſday morning, October 14.—O Lord, overrule in the affairs of this day, I pray thee. Give me wiſSabbath morning, October 18.—Several chriſtian friends viſited me yeſterday afternoon. And I was engWedneſday morning, October 21.—On the 21ſt of October, thirty years ago, I firſt entered the marriedSaturday morning, October 24.—I have thoughts of drawing two bows, at a venture. If it is thy holy wThurſday morning, November 12.—I have had ſome ſweet communion with God in his providences, admiringSaturday morning, November 14.—Thanks be to God, all things go well with me now, as to temporals. I Thurſday, December 3.—Thankſgiving day.— I have been reviewing the particular difficulties I recordeThurſday morning, December 31.—Now God has graciouſly brought me to the laſt day of the year. And hoNew Year's day.—January 1, 1762.THE firſt duty I ſeem to be called to this year, is reſignation to t
New Year's day.—January 1, 1762.
Saturday morning, January 2.—Bleſs the Lord, O my ſoul, and forget not all his benefits! God graciouWedneſday morning, January 13.—Thanks be to God for his quickening influences yeſterday. After I begFriday morning, January 15.—My Lord and my God, I renew my requeſt, that thy grace may be ſufficientWedneſday morning, January 27. —It is with peculiar pleaſure I now reflect on the exerciſes of my ſoWedneſday morning, February 3.—I have been laid aſide almoſt ever ſince the Sabbath, with a great coThurſday morning, February 11.—Laſt evening I heard of the death of my Reverend uncle, Doctor John GApril 15.—Ah, my Lord and my God, though I mourn for ſin leſs than I ought, yet, bleſſed be thy nameApril 18.—Lord, be with me this Sabbath. Call off Satan, if it be thy holy will. Suffer him not to ſSabbath morning, May 23.—Lord, how long ſhall Satan and my own heart conſpire, on the Lord's day in July 2.—Yeſterday God permitted twenty one of us to meet together, and to keep our ſolemn faſt. I waMonday morning, July 12.— I was engaged laſt week in reading and thinking on Mr. Bellamy's Theron, PTueſday morning, November 9.—On Friday, October 15, I was taken with an ague fit, and extremity of pSabbath morning, December 20.—O Lord, let integrity and uprightneſs preſerve me this day. Let me notThurſday evening,January 13, 1763.O LORD, look down upon me in mercy, and for Chriſt's ſake freely p
Thurſday evening,January 13, 1763.
Sabbath Day, March 6.—I am thy poor, weary pilgrim, Lord. O if it may conſiſt with thy glory, give mSabbath, March 13.—My glorious God, raiſe me this day above the temptations and trifling difficultieWedneſday morning, March 30.—I awoke refreſhed in the night with that part of the gracious covenant Tueſday morning, May 17.—My Lord and my God, permit me for Chriſt's ſake, to draw near at this time,Sabbath evening, June 12.—Bleſſed be God for permitting me to wait on thee in thy houſe and at thy tSabbath evening, October 2.—Yeſterday God permitted a number of his handmaids to meet here, and unitThurſday, October 27.—The laſt Thurſday in the month is come. And now will God graciouſly bring his Wedneſday morning,March 21, 1764.LORD, what a barren figtree am I become! Sure thou comeſt ſeeking f
Wedneſday morning,March 21, 1764.
Tueſday morning, March 27.—Lord, in mercy ſtrengthen my reſolutions, as to ſelf examination, and theMarch 29.—O let divine love once more take place in my ſoul, Lord God Almighty. O breathe love into March 31.—Lord, I would with ſorrow bemoan all my ſhort comings and imperfections, reſpecting thoſe Tueſday morning, April 3.—What is my end in practiſing the duties of religion? O Lord, thou knoweſt.Wedneſday, April 4.—How do I behave now, with reſpect to death and judgment? Alas, in a ſtupid manneApril 5.—Am I prepared for death and judgment? A great queſtion this!—My ſoul, do not trifle in anſwFriday morning, April 6.—My ſoul, to the work of examination again. How knoweſt thou, that thou ſhalSaturday, April 7.—My ſoul, be ſerious. What is the foundation of thy confidence, now ſo many of theThurſday morning, June 7.—Lord, overrule for thy own glory, both as to ſervants and children.This haLord's day morning. June 10.—Integrity and uprightneſs, faith, love, zeal and humility, O God, for CThurſday morning, July 19.—What a very fool I am! I can tell ſervants, they are free from cares, becDecember 9.—God is dealing very graciouſly with me, with reſpect to temporals. We have an ample ſuppDecember 21.—Lord, make me in every reſpect as a little child, in thy lovely eye, and modeſt before Lord's Day, December 23.—O my precious Chriſt, make me as a little child, every way thou wouldeſt haJanuary 4, 1765.THANKS be to God, who did appear for our help on New Year's day. Thirteen or fourtee
January 4, 1765.
Thurſday morning,October 2, 1766.GOD has again brought us to one of our appointed ſeaſons of prayer.
Thurſday morning,October 2, 1766.
Saturday morning, November 8.—Lord, I beſeech thee, ſhow me yet more and more of my own vileneſs, foThurſday morning,January 29, 1767.MY God, for Chriſt's ſake, pardon my iniquity, my tenaciouſneſs of
Thurſday morning,January 29, 1767.
Wedneſday morning, April 1.—O moſt glorious God, thou ſeeſt my diſcouragements now. And ſure I am, aThurſday, April 23.—It has pleaſed a righteous, holy, and good God, to lay his hand on me from SaturTueſday morning, May 5.—Will God overrule for me on the morrow,Election day. if I live, and clear myMay 7.—O my Lord and my God, preſerve me from being a cenſurer abroad, from prying into the ſecret fJuly 17.—Bleſſed be God for refreſhing ſhowers upon the dry and thirſty earth. And now the artillerySaturday morning, July 18.—Thanks be to God for the refreſhment of yeſterday morning; and laſt eveniMonday morning,July 25, 1768.THE Lord look in mercy upon me now, every way broken by infirmities. No
Monday morning,July 25, 1768.
Wedneſday morning, July 27.—I have been very poorly, and unfit for every duty. The diſorder by whichWedneſday morning,October 7, 1767. Matthew xvi. 13, &c.MY glorious Lord, doſt thou inquire, Whom do 
Wedneſday morning,October 7, 1767. Matthew xvi. 13, &c.

November 5, 1767. The xxvth Chapter of Matthew.

    _ PART IV. The Concluſion of her Life.

      * The Employment and Society of Heaven.

**Types of content**

  * There are 188 **verse** lines!
  * Oh, Mr. Jourdain, there is **prose** in there!

There are 334 **ommitted** fragments! 
 @__reason__ (334) : illegible (334)  •  @__resp__ (334) : #PDCC (334)  •  @__extent__ (334) : 1 letter (277), 1 word (54), 1 span (1), 2 letters (1), 4 letters (1)

**Character listing**


|Text|string(s)|codepoint(s)|
|---|---|---|
|Latin Extended-A|ſ|383|
|General Punctuation|•…—|8226 8230 8212|
|Geometric Shapes|◊▪|9674 9642|
|CJKSymbolsandPunctuation|〈〉|12296 12297|

##Tag Usage Summary##

###Header Tag Usage###

|No|element name|occ|attributes|
|---|---|---|---|
|1.|__author__|3||
|2.|__availability__|1||
|3.|__biblFull__|1||
|4.|__change__|5||
|5.|__date__|7| @__when__ (1) : 2008-09 (1)|
|6.|__editorialDecl__|1||
|7.|__extent__|2||
|8.|__idno__|6| @__type__ (6) : DLPS (1), TCP (1), STC (1), NOTIS (1), IMAGE-SET (1), EVANS-CITATION (1)|
|9.|__keywords__|1| @__scheme__ (1) : http://authorities.loc.gov/ (1)|
|10.|__label__|5||
|11.|__langUsage__|1||
|12.|__language__|1| @__ident__ (1) : eng (1)|
|13.|__listPrefixDef__|1||
|14.|__note__|5||
|15.|__notesStmt__|2||
|16.|__p__|11||
|17.|__prefixDef__|2| @__ident__ (2) : tcp (1), char (1)  •  @__matchPattern__ (2) : ([0-9\-]+):([0-9IVX]+) (1), (.+) (1)  •  @__replacementPattern__ (2) : http://eebo.chadwyck.com/downloadtiff?vid=$1&page=$2 (1), https://raw.githubusercontent.com/textcreationpartnership/Texts/master/tcpchars.xml#$1 (1)|
|18.|__projectDesc__|1||
|19.|__pubPlace__|2||
|20.|__publicationStmt__|2||
|21.|__publisher__|2||
|22.|__ref__|2| @__target__ (2) : https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/ (1), http://www.textcreationpartnership.org/docs/. (1)|
|23.|__seriesStmt__|1||
|24.|__sourceDesc__|1||
|25.|__term__|2||
|26.|__textClass__|1||
|27.|__title__|3||
|28.|__titleStmt__|2||


###Text Tag Usage###

|No|element name|occ|attributes|
|---|---|---|---|
|1.|__argument__|1||
|2.|__body__|2||
|3.|__closer__|21||
|4.|__date__|28||
|5.|__dateline__|2||
|6.|__desc__|334||
|7.|__div__|257| @__type__ (257) : title_page (1), table_of_contents (1), biography (1), part (4), year (19), entry (229), section (1), poem (1)  •  @__n__ (4) : 1 (1), 2 (1), 3 (1), 4 (1)|
|8.|__floatingText__|2| @__type__ (2) : letter (2)  •  @__xml:lang__ (2) : eng (0)|
|9.|__g__|1947| @__ref__ (1947) : char:EOLhyphen (1901), char:punc (29), char:EOLunhyphen (17)|
|10.|__gap__|334| @__reason__ (334) : illegible (334)  •  @__resp__ (334) : #PDCC (334)  •  @__extent__ (334) : 1 letter (277), 1 word (54), 1 span (1), 2 letters (1), 4 letters (1)|
|11.|__head__|32||
|12.|__hi__|385||
|13.|__item__|4||
|14.|__l__|188||
|15.|__label__|4||
|16.|__lg__|45||
|17.|__list__|1||
|18.|__milestone__|46| @__type__ (46) : tcpmilestone (46)  •  @__unit__ (46) : unspecified (46)  •  @__n__ (46) : 14 (2), 15 (2), 16 (1), 17 (1), 18 (2), 19 (1), 20 (1), 21 (1), 22 (1), 23 (1), 24 (2), 25 (2), 26 (1), 27 (1), 1 (1), 2 (1), 3 (1), 4 (1), 5 (1), 6 (1), 7 (1), 8 (1), 9 (1), 10 (1), 11 (1), 12 (1), 13 (1), 29 (1), 30 (1), 31 (1), 32 (1), 33 (1), 34 (1), 35 (1), 36 (1), 37 &c. (1), 40 (1), 41 (1), 44 (1), 45 (1), 46 (1)|
|19.|__note__|16| @__n__ (16) : * (16)  •  @__place__ (16) : bottom (16)|
|20.|__opener__|2||
|21.|__p__|579||
|22.|__pb__|379| @__facs__ (379) : tcp:035636_0000_100613FEF3E00B68 (1), tcp:035636_0001_100613D381D131D8 (1), tcp:035636_0002_100613D7E8887ED0 (1), tcp:035636_0003_100613DA877C8CB8 (1), tcp:035636_0004_100613DDDFEE1E38 (2), tcp:035636_0005_100613DF66EA8258 (2), tcp:035636_0006_100613E1CE89B1E8 (2), tcp:035636_0007_100613E355E09600 (2), tcp:035636_0008_100613E4E01B8B20 (2), tcp:035636_0009_100613E66C43F860 (2), tcp:035636_0010_100613E92902B7E0 (2), tcp:035636_0011_100613EBC879F3D0 (2), tcp:035636_0012_100613EED629A520 (2), tcp:035636_0013_100613F146713B20 (2), tcp:035636_0014_100613F301A007E8 (2), tcp:035636_0015_100613F4B7B19D38 (2), tcp:035636_0016_100613F6419CDF50 (2), tcp:035636_0017_100613F9C8C7AA58 (2), tcp:035636_0018_100613FBA38A1560 (2), tcp:035636_0019_100613FD38852590 (2), tcp:035636_0020_1005EDF780809210 (2), tcp:035636_0021_10061400A6D50A40 (2), tcp:035636_0022_100614051EE26710 (2), tcp:035636_0023_10061409A5D75CD8 (2), tcp:035636_0024_1006140B318E1C88 (2), tcp:035636_0025_1006140CCD9FDE88 (2), tcp:035636_0026_1006140E57DF1198 (2), tcp:035636_0027_100614122ABB0E70 (2), tcp:035636_0028_10061416488D21F8 (2), tcp:035636_0029_10061418C480CD30 (2), tcp:035636_0030_1006141A4C4BACB0 (2), tcp:035636_0031_1006141BD33BC078 (2), tcp:035636_0032_1006141F35EE1760 (2), tcp:035636_0033_1006142296447080 (2), tcp:035636_0034_10061424359A4E28 (2), tcp:035636_0035_10061425ED2E2D68 (2), tcp:035636_0036_100614277B28AB28 (2), tcp:035636_0037_1006142B1A593188 (2), tcp:035636_0038_1006142DA8F89DF0 (2), tcp:035636_0039_10061430A36518A0 (2), tcp:035636_0040_100614324E754370 (2), tcp:035636_0041_10061433E96BC280 (2), tcp:035636_0042_1006143571876D98 (2), tcp:035636_0043_10061439CAFDF318 (2), tcp:035636_0044_1006143CE70A4B10 (2), tcp:035636_0045_1006143E86EDC5F0 (2), tcp:035636_0046_1006144026A6FD30 (2), tcp:035636_0047_10061441C3EB1CE0 (2), tcp:035636_0048_10061447403C64F0 (2), tcp:035636_0049_1006144A0C753198 (2), tcp:035636_0050_1006144B9888BF18 (2), tcp:035636_0051_10061476E0A285D0 (2), tcp:035636_0052_1006144E57011960 (2), tcp:035636_0053_100614512E901EC8 (2), tcp:035636_0054_10061453AFDADAC0 (2), tcp:035636_0055_10061456748FC3C8 (2), tcp:035636_0056_100614580B6CCE00 (2), tcp:035636_0057_1006145AB3830EB8 (2), tcp:035636_0058_1006145EA4789FC8 (2), tcp:035636_0059_1006146044F00DA8 (2), tcp:035636_0060_10061461E0DD8748 (2), tcp:035636_0061_100614636C1E28B0 (2), tcp:035636_0062_10061468AB7DBE48 (2), tcp:035636_0063_1006146B78965400 (2), tcp:035636_0064_1006146E32F82050 (2), tcp:035636_0065_1006146FECF46C40 (2), tcp:035636_0066_100614718C563018 (2), tcp:035636_0067_1006147318F4B7B8 (2), tcp:035636_0068_1005EDF9B6BAB248 (2), tcp:035636_0069_1006147A7179E8A8 (2), tcp:035636_0070_1006147CEBE97480 (2), tcp:035636_0071_1006147E8B586758 (2), tcp:035636_0072_100614801D11C9A8 (2), tcp:035636_0073_10061482E2D1A2A0 (2), tcp:035636_0074_1006148560019698 (2), tcp:035636_0075_10061487D6752D10 (2), tcp:035636_0076_1006148960A00D00 (2), tcp:035636_0077_1006148D74111A00 (2), tcp:035636_0078_1006148F0876BF80 (2), tcp:035636_0079_10061491AD024B08 (2), tcp:035636_0080_1006149353AB9178 (2), tcp:035636_0081_10061495D1ECF188 (2), tcp:035636_0082_1006149865F479F8 (2), tcp:035636_0083_1006149A3567DC18 (2), tcp:035636_0084_1006149DC71FA390 (2), tcp:035636_0085_1006149F56A49D98 (2), tcp:035636_0086_100614A0F16CB1D8 (2), tcp:035636_0087_100614A29B6B93B8 (2), tcp:035636_0088_100614A54DCA0F50 (2), tcp:035636_0089_100614A7FB985130 (2), tcp:035636_0090_100614AAAA1BE840 (2), tcp:035636_0091_100614AD2008F168 (2), tcp:035636_0092_100614AED91FC340 (2), tcp:035636_0093_100614B14A43F9B8 (2), tcp:035636_0094_100614B3239DF350 (2), tcp:035636_0095_100614B6B3B2A268 (2), tcp:035636_0096_100614B8508DC330 (2), tcp:035636_0097_100614BB003B4F98 (2), tcp:035636_0098_100614BDA1445798 (2), tcp:035636_0099_100614C03AF2A320 (2), tcp:035636_0100_100614C218272E88 (2), tcp:035636_0101_100614EF57FFA958 (2), tcp:035636_0102_1005EE02651E5990 (2), tcp:035636_0103_100614C49E002148 (2), tcp:035636_0104_100614C657357B88 (2), tcp:035636_0105_100614C8C83DE4D0 (2), tcp:035636_0106_100614CBABBEE210 (2), tcp:035636_0107_100614CFBA865490 (2), tcp:035636_0108_100614D18416E3E8 (2), tcp:035636_0109_100614D340D35978 (2), tcp:035636_0110_100614D4D032E190 (2), tcp:035636_0111_100614D790E23848 (2), tcp:035636_0112_100614DC6703E270 (2), tcp:035636_0113_100614DE47373E88 (2), tcp:035636_0114_100614DFCF8F8928 (2), tcp:035636_0115_100614E173FB8690 (2), tcp:035636_0116_100614E31361DE48 (2), tcp:035636_0117_100614E49BD3E2D8 (2), tcp:035636_0118_100614E86E867A08 (2), tcp:035636_0119_100614EB21B52E50 (2), tcp:035636_0120_100614EDB8E2D208 (2), tcp:035636_0121_1005EDFDAC46F9E8 (2), tcp:035636_0122_100614F0F6B6D218 (2), tcp:035636_0123_100614F394338DF8 (2), tcp:035636_0124_100614F73965D518 (2), tcp:035636_0125_100614F8CCD5FED8 (2), tcp:035636_0126_100614FA7302A3B8 (2), tcp:035636_0127_100614FDF15D44A0 (2), tcp:035636_0128_100614FFFA35F658 (2), tcp:035636_0129_10061502A0B853D8 (2), tcp:035636_0130_1006150511B639B8 (2), tcp:035636_0131_10061506976B3958 (2), tcp:035636_0132_100615092CDEE0A0 (2), tcp:035636_0133_1006150AD8E250C8 (2), tcp:035636_0134_1006150EB33F7220 (2), tcp:035636_0135_100615104140E858 (2), tcp:035636_0136_10061511DC8842A0 (2), tcp:035636_0137_1006151362F5EBB0 (2), tcp:035636_0138_100615171AB72450 (2), tcp:035636_0139_1006151A01457C38 (2), tcp:035636_0140_1006151B9D125A30 (2), tcp:035636_0141_1006151E5155D9D8 (2), tcp:035636_0142_1006151FF7823868 (2), tcp:035636_0143_10061522A7CED390 (2), tcp:035636_0144_100615255FAD0DF8 (2), tcp:035636_0145_10061527F1E1ED90 (2), tcp:035636_0146_10061529906386B0 (2), tcp:035636_0147_1006152B183B2000 (2), tcp:035636_0148_1006152FEA1B9A20 (2), tcp:035636_0149_10061531709F0968 (2), tcp:035636_0150_100615331A84BA10 (2), tcp:035636_0151_10061561B83B2828 (2), tcp:035636_0152_10061534B67E68B0 (2), tcp:035636_0153_1006153649C5E078 (2), tcp:035636_0154_10061538B15E32E8 (2), tcp:035636_0155_1006153C1ECDC1E8 (2), tcp:035636_0156_1006153DC0DBB618 (2), tcp:035636_0157_100615403463C9F8 (2), tcp:035636_0158_10061541BB23CD10 (2), tcp:035636_0159_10061544316B69B8 (2), tcp:035636_0160_10061546C3AA5EA8 (2), tcp:035636_0161_100615484CD37A50 (2), tcp:035636_0162_1006154A014F5F78 (2), tcp:035636_0163_1006154C8A676FD8 (2), tcp:035636_0164_10061551CF4D7718 (2), tcp:035636_0165_1006155361E43560 (2), tcp:035636_0166_100615550145DDE0 (2), tcp:035636_0167_100615568B3CB198 (2), tcp:035636_0168_1006155A0B0EC7B0 (2), tcp:035636_0169_1006155DB65D1D40 (2), tcp:035636_0170_1006155F42E4C0D0 (2), tcp:035636_0171_1005EE002BD5A248 (2), tcp:035636_0172_10061564A92A3928 (2), tcp:035636_0173_1006156767AC6EE0 (2), tcp:035636_0174_1006156AD55AB878 (2), tcp:035636_0175_1006156C8BB41030 (2), tcp:035636_0176_100615703B82D918 (2), tcp:035636_0177_10061571E75FE520 (2), tcp:035636_0178_100615738C61B168 (2), tcp:035636_0179_10061575FB270D18 (2), tcp:035636_0180_1006157A06473168 (2), tcp:035636_0181_1006157B916E0170 (2), tcp:035636_0182_1006157D2DDAD888 (2), tcp:035636_0183_1006157FAA10B128 (2), tcp:035636_0184_10061583DF248CA8 (2), tcp:035636_0185_10061585764EB1D8 (2), tcp:035636_0186_100615870384FC58 (2), tcp:035636_0187_10061588B71F5018 (2), tcp:035636_0188_1006158B353F5130 (2), tcp:035636_0189_1006158D2472FE60 (2), tcp:035636_0190_10061592502DFF90 (2), tcp:035636_0191_10061593D70D0FE0 (1)  •  @__n__ (372) : 6 (1), 7 (1), 8 (1), 9 (1), 10 (1), 11 (1), 12 (1), 13 (1), 14 (1), 15 (1), 16 (1), 17 (1), 18 (1), 19 (1), 20 (1), 21 (1), 22 (1), 23 (1), 24 (1), 25 (1), 26 (1), 27 (1), 28 (1), 29 (1), 30 (1), 31 (1), 32 (1), 33 (1), 34 (1), 35 (1), 36 (1), 37 (1), 38 (1), 39 (1), 40 (1), 41 (1), 42 (1), 43 (1), 44 (1), 45 (1), 46 (1), 47 (1), 48 (1), 49 (1), 50 (1), 51 (1), 52 (1), 53 (1), 54 (1), 55 (1), 56 (1), 57 (1), 59 (1), 60 (1), 61 (1), 62 (1), 63 (1), 64 (1), 65 (1), 66 (1), 67 (1), 68 (1), 69 (1), 70 (1), 71 (1), 72 (1), 73 (1), 74 (1), 75 (1), 76 (1), 77 (1), 78 (1), 79 (1), 80 (1), 81 (1), 82 (1), 83 (1), 85 (1), 86 (1), 87 (1), 88 (1), 89 (1), 90 (1), 91 (1), 92 (1), 93 (1), 94 (1), 95 (1), 96 (1), 97 (1), 98 (1), 99 (1), 100 (1), 101 (1), 102 (1), 103 (1), 104 (1), 105 (1), 106 (1), 107 (1), 108 (1), 109 (1), 110 (1), 111 (1), 112 (1), 113 (1), 114 (1), 115 (1), 116 (1), 117 (1), 118 (1), 119 (1), 120 (1), 121 (1), 122 (1), 123 (1), 124 (1), 125 (1), 126 (1), 127 (1), 128 (1), 129 (1), 130 (1), 131 (1), 132 (1), 133 (1), 134 (1), 135 (1), 136 (1), 137 (1), 138 (1), 139 (1), 140 (1), 141 (1), 142 (1), 143 (2), 144 (1), 145 (1), 146 (1), 147 (1), 148 (1), 149 (1), 150 (1), 151 (1), 152 (1), 153 (1), 154 (1), 155 (1), 156 (1), 157 (1), 158 (1), 159 (1), 160 (1), 161 (1), 162 (1), 163 (1), 164 (1), 165 (1), 166 (1), 167 (1), 168 (1), 169 (1), 170 (1), 171 (1), 172 (1), 173 (1), 174 (1), 175 (1), 176 (1), 177 (1), 178 (1), 179 (1), 180 (1), 181 (1), 182 (1), 183 (1), 184 (1), 185 (1), 186 (1), 187 (1), 188 (1), 189 (1), 190 (1), 191 (1), 192 (1), 193 (1), 194 (1), 195 (1), 196 (1), 197 (1), 198 (1), 199 (1), 200 (1), 201 (1), 202 (1), 203 (1), 204 (1), 205 (1), 206 (1), 207 (1), 208 (1), 209 (1), 210 (1), 211 (1), 212 (1), 213 (1), 214 (1), 215 (1), 216 (1), 217 (1), 218 (1), 219 (1), 220 (1), 221 (1), 222 (1), 223 (1), 224 (1), 225 (1), 226 (1), 227 (1), 228 (1), 229 (1), 230 (1), 231 (1), 232 (1), 233 (1), 234 (1), 235 (1), 236 (1), 237 (1), 238 (1), 239 (1), 240 (1), 241 (1), 242 (1), 244 (1), 245 (1), 246 (1), 247 (1), 248 (1), 249 (1), 250 (1), 251 (1), 252 (1), 253 (1), 254 (1), 255 (1), 256 (1), 257 (1), 258 (1), 259 (1), 260 (1), 261 (1), 262 (1), 263 (1), 264 (1), 265 (1), 266 (1), 267 (1), 268 (1), 269 (1), 270 (1), 271 (1), 272 (1), 273 (1), 274 (1), 275 (1), 276 (1), 277 (1), 278 (1), 279 (1), 280 (1), 281 (1), 282 (1), 283 (1), 284 (1), 285 (1), 286 (1), 287 (1), 288 (1), 289 (1), 290 (1), 291 (1), 292 (1), 293 (1), 294 (1), 295 (1), 296 (1), 297 (1), 298 (1), 299 (1), 300 (1), 301 (1), 302 (1), 303 (1), 304 (1), 305 (1), 306 (1), 307 (1), 308 (1), 309 (1), 310 (1), 311 (1), 312 (1), 313 (1), 314 (1), 315 (1), 316 (1), 317 (1), 318 (1), 319 (1), 320 (1), 321 (1), 322 (1), 323 (1), 324 (1), 325 (1), 326 (1), 327 (1), 328 (1), 329 (1), 330 (1), 331 (1), 332 (1), 333 (1), 334 (1), 335 (1), 336 (1), 337 (1), 338 (1), 339 (1), 340 (1), 341 (1), 342 (1), 343 (1), 344 (1), 345 (1), 346 (1), 347 (1), 348 (1), 349 (1), 350 (1), 351 (1), 353 (1), 354 (1), 355 (1), 356 (1), 357 (1), 358 (1), 359 (1), 360 (1), 361 (1), 362 (1), 363 (1), 364 (1), 365 (1), 366 (1), 367 (1), 368 (1), 369 (1), 370 (1), 371 (1), 372 (1), 373 (1), 374 (1), 375 (1), 376 (1), 377 (1), 378 (1), 379 (1), 380 (1)|
|23.|__postscript__|2||
|24.|__q__|2||
|25.|__salute__|1||
|26.|__signed__|18||
|27.|__trailer__|1||
